---
layout: post
title:  "Marketing Mix Modeling"
date:   2025-02-07 17:00:00 +0700
categories: [marketing, models, retails]
---

## Understand MMM
- A statistical method to study the impact of marketing campaigns on different pre-defined KPI metrics, e.g., traffic, clicks, visits, conversions, sales. Broader use: to better understand factors that affect business KPI over time.
  - Privacy-friendly (important: it does not need user-level data but instead runs off aggregated data, e.g. campaign-level data).
  - Can overcome signal loss (whereas MTA depends on online signal).
  - Holistic: a measurement solution for cross-channel measurements. Measure all channels together on one analysis. Works for both marketing (online and offline) and non-marketing activities (price, promotion, seasonality, distribution).
  - Flexible: business type (gaming, e-com, digital). KPI types (revenue, sales, website activity, etc.)
  - Help allocate marketing budget across different channels, products, regions --> forecast the impact of future campaigns.
- It is not a new approach.
- Every MMM model is more or less a regression.
  - Xs: campaign spends+activities, an other control variables:
    - Macro-economic factors (GPD, unemployment rate)
    - Seasonal factors: holidays, events.
    - Competing variables: competitor's spending.
    - Price changes or promotions.
    - External factor: Weather.
    - Group indication: region, city
  - Y: ROI, KPIs.
    - revenue, conversion, customer acquisition.
  - Usually: based on MLE.
  - Overall Steps at a high level:
    - **External factors and marketing inputs**.
    - **Impression and business metrics**
    - **MMM statistical regression analysis**.
    - **Data outputs**. 

## Why bother?
 - Understands your past campaigns to make decisions in the future: budget allocation.
 - What was my ROI? How did a certain channel (e.g., Facebook) drive my revenue or other KPI of interest?


## Meridian (Google)

### Why Meridian?
- Traditional MMMs: use standard regression --> MLE: need a lot of data to be stable. No info about uncertainty.
  - Provides only point estimates of each coefficient.
- Bayesian MMMs:  Bayes Theorem + MCMC sampling to estimate coeff.
  - Provides est. of distribution of coeff.
  - Bayesian models work better when having less data or with missing values, or being too sparse.
    - Thanks to assumption about Prior.
   
### Concepts
- Adstock: models the effect of spend on sales being not instantaneous but accumulating over time.
- Saturation: models the effect of spend onf sales being not linear but saturates at some point (i.e., diminishing returns).
### Other features
- Geo-level modeling: Meridian can perform hierarchical modeling.
  - Meaning you can model multiple regions together.
  - This is a good tradeoff between having separate models (unpooled) vs one single model that averages all regions (pooled).

### Components
- Y: signal
- Xs:
  - Adstock (the main x). It's called Media variables.
    - with slope, Hill function, geometric decay rate. 
  - External control covariates (z).
  - Intercept, Stochastic Intercept.
    - time-varying, to account for trend, seasonality.
   
### Example use cases
- [Effect of different ad channel spending on weekly sales](https://medium.com/towards-data-science/new-generation-marketing-mix-modelling-with-meridian-e831a0906b40).
  - ```pip install google-meridian```
  -  Control variables: holidays.
  -  Can viz the contribution by baseline and marketing channels on top of baseline.
    - Results can be sensitive to different model's parameters.
  - Can have ROI for each channel.
  - Can use the result to optimize budget: it propose an optimal allocation of spends to maximize revenue.
    - Use response curves: they describe the relationship between spend and the resulting incremental revenue.
    - Use that to viz diminishing points. But Meridian offers optimizer for you!

## [Robyn by Meta](https://facebookexperimental.github.io/Robyn/)
* [Advanced marketing mix modeling using Meta Open Source project Robyn](https://www.facebookblueprint.com/student/path/253121-marketing-mix-models).
  * MMM predicts outcomes (e.g., revenues, conversions) using historical time-series data.
  * MMM is aggregated on different dimensions (e.g., channels, campaigns, time units) and doesn't require event-level data with PII.
  * MMM is supported by 2 other measurement methods from Meta: MTA, Lift. These 3 are contained in "360 Measurement Approach". Use all 3 to calibrate each other and see a complete picture of "Incrementality".
    * MMM: useful for cross-media measurement (because it is resilient to changes in the ecosystem). Broad budget allocation. Annual / Semi-annual.
    * Lift: use it to calibrate MMM to make it closer to incrementality. Ground truth ROI and channel optimization. Episodic.
    * MTA: use it for real-time optimization. But, it will have gaps in data, which MMM can help. MMM can account for key business drivers and consider broad allocation. So MTA: Cross-publisher optimization. Always-on.
* [How Facebook Robyn works](https://getrecast.com/facebook-robyn/)
* [An Analyst's Guide to MMM](https://facebookexperimental.github.io/Robyn/docs/analysts-guide-to-MMM/)
  * [Announcing the Python version of Project Robyn](https://developers.facebook.com/blog/post/2024/12/19/announcing-the-python-version-of-project-robyn/). [Code on PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/robynpy/). [Code on GitHub](https://github.com/facebookexperimental/Robyn/tree/main/python)

## Bayesian MMM
* [Bayesian MMM](https://getrecast.com/bayesian-mmm/).
  * Use Bayesian Statistics, esp. MCMC sampling which is flexible to incorporate prior domain knowledge. --> Can be complex. --> Hence, there are a few best practices to help with building a **Bayesian Regression Model**. 
  * **Incremental** Return on Marketing Investment (**ROMI**).
    * **Diminishing Returns** (Saturation Rates) of ROMI. Model using Hill Function.
  * **Adstock Rates** (Delay / Carryover Effect) - Estimating this effect is a core challenge in MMM.
    * Use pdf of a negative binomial distr. to model the shape of the adstock effect.
    * Pdf is defined on non-neg integer --> good, since we can use days to index the number of day from the date of spend.
    * Its pdf can also accommodate a range of shapes that can represent our intuitions about how the effect of spend should be distribted over time.
    * Check our their R code on carryover effect.
  * **Seasonality and Holidays**
  * Use the Bayesian MCMC library Stan. R code in Colab. [bayesian_mmm_r.ipynb](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1gZiiXT5Ms1bE1bXU4HQpg3e5v4KDYBqq?usp=sharing)
    * This creates a function
for our adstocks, creates the parameters for our model, handles transformations
for saturation and adstocks, then builds the model. 

## Alternative Tools
* Pymc3, numpyro.
* Robyn by Meta.

### Ref
- [Linkedin post by prof Nico Neumann](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/nico-neumann-3021b32_great-news-for-marketers-interested-in-marketing-activity-7290190375430893568-WyF4/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_ios).
- [GitHub page](https://github.com/google/meridian). [Documentation](https://developers.google.com/meridian).
- [New-Generation Marketing Mix Modelling with Meridian](https://medium.com/towards-data-science/new-generation-marketing-mix-modelling-with-meridian-e831a0906b40).
